# Rock Paper Scissors - Online Game

## Javascript Essentials Portfolio Project

->Insert mockup

Summary text

## [View the website live on github pages](https://loellarp.github.io/rock-paper-scissors/index.html)
---

# Table of contents

- [UX](#ux)
    - [Website owner business goals](#website-owner-business-goals)
    - [User goals](#user-goals)
        - [New user goals](#new-user-goals)
        - [Returning user goals](#returning-user-goals)
        - [Website owner business goals](#website-owner-business-goals)
    - [User stories](#user-stories)
    - [Structure of the website](#structure-of-the-website)
    - [Wireframes](#wireframes)
    - [Surface](#surface)
- [Features](#features)
- [Technology](#technology)
- [Testing](#testing)
    - [Functionality testing](#functionality-testing)
    - [Compatibility testing](#compatibility-testing)
    - [Code Validation](#code-validation)
    - [User stories testing](#user-stories-testing)
    - [Issues found during site development](#issues-found-during-site-development)
    - [Performance testing](#performance-testing)
- [Deployment](#deployment)
- [Credits](#credits)
- [Screenshots](#screenshots)

# UX

## Website owner business goals

Insert business goals

## User goals

### New user goals:
- User goal 1
- User goal 2
- User goal 3

### Returning user goals:
- User goal 1
- User goal 2
- User goal 3

## User stories

### As a business owner:
* I ...
* I ...
* I ...

### As a new user:
* I ...
* I ...
* I ...

### As a returning user:
* I ...
* I ...

## Structure of the website

The website is designed to...

## Wireframes

I used Balsamiq Wireframes to create the wireframes.

->Insert wireframe image

## Surface

### Colors
The main colors used for this website:
* Background color: TBD (or image)
* Font color: TBD
* Game area color: TBD
* Score area color: TBD
* Button color: TBD
* Button hover/click color: TBD

### Fonts

* The main font user on this website is Roboto with sans-serif as backup font

### Images

* Background image (potentially)
* The images user for the rock, paper, and scissors hands are from [Clipartmax.com](www.clipartmax) and are credited in the [credits](#credits) section.
* Potentially new hand images

[Back to Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)
___
# Features

The website consists of one page with the following features:

## Header

The header is simple including only the name of the game.

## Game area

The game area contains the main game functions of the website, including (from top to bottom):

* A result area: 
    * This section displays the result of each round of the game including the rule behind the result. 
    * This section also doubles as a short introduction section about the game when the user first enters the website, explaining the basic function of the website. 
* A hands area: 
    * This section displays the rock, paper and scissors hands used in the game with the user's hand choice on the left and the random computer hand on the right. 
    * The default hands displayed when the user enters or reloads the page are two rock hands and these are later swapped to match the user's active choice and the random choice generated by the computer (Javascript).
* A controls area:
    * This section includes a CTA for the user to make a choice between rock, paper, and scissors by clicking on either of their three buttons. When DOM content has loaded and the user clicks one of the buttons the functions of the game are called to initiate the game.

## Score area

Below the game area is the score area keeping track of the results of each round of the game. This section includes scores for won, lost, and draw that are incremented after each round depending on the result. 

## Footer

Below the score area is footer containing a short copywrite statement with the name of business owner's company.

## Future improvements

* Include a background image to set the tone of the website
* Improved color scheme
* New images for the hands
* Improve the positioning of the hands
* Improved styling of game and score area
* Improved copy for the result area
* Improved positioning of the footer. Position: absolute? 
* Other fonts
* Improved responsive design with media queries

[Back to Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)
___
# Technologies used

### HTML5
* As a markup language to structure the content of the website.

### CSS
* As a styling language.

### JavaScript
* As a scripting language managing all the dynamic functions of the website.

### Google fonts
* As a font resource.

### Balsamiq Wireframes
* As a tool to create wireframes.

### Github
* As a software hosting platform to host the development project in a remote location.

### Git
* As a distributed version control system.

### Gitpod
* As a development platform.

### Photoshop
* As an image editor.

[Back to Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)
___
# Testing

## Functionality testing

I used Chrome developer tools throughout the development of the website to test the funtionctions of the site and solve issues with styling and responsiveness. 

## Compatibility testing

-> Insert compatibility testing

## User story testing

### As a business owner:

- I ...
    > ...
- I ...
    > ...
- I ...
    > ...

### As a new user:

- I ...
    > ...
- I ...
    > ...
- I ...
    > ...

### As a returning user:

- I ...
    > ...
- I ...
    > ...
- I ...
    > ...
___
## Issues found during website deployment:

* ...
* ...
* ...

## Performance testing

I used the [Lighthouse](https://developers.google.com/web/tools/lighthouse/) tool to check the performance of the website.

-> insert performance testing

## Code validation

I used three websites to validate the code at the end of the development process:

* Insert html validator
* Insert CSS validator
* Insert JavaScript validator

[Back to Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)
___
# Deployment

-> Insert deployment section with steps

[Back to Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)
___
# Credits

* When initiating the project I used Code Institute's student template for gitpod: [Gitpod full template](https://github.com/Code-Institute-Org/gitpod-full-template)

* Knowledge libraries:

    * [w3schools.com](https://www.w3schools.com)
    * ...
    * ...
    * Code institute...
    
### Code

* Score area: Love Math -> insert link

### Images

* [clipart211491.png](https://www.clipartmax.com/so/rock-paper-scissors-clipart/)
* -> Potentially background image

[Back to Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)
___

# Screenshots

-> Insert project screenshots 

[Back to Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)
___